In this page, I try to address all comments and questions made by the four reviewers on my paper _"[Assessing verticalization effects on urban safety perception](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1709.00350.pdf)"_ , accepted for the [2017 ACM SIGSPATIAL Student Research Competition (SRC)](http://sigspatial2017.sigspatial.org/competition/). This is because the size of the expanded abstract used on the SRC format is not sufficient to address all topics adequately inline. I thank all four reviewers for the comments made, and time dispensed in these reviews.

Regarding comments made by reviewer one, Teng in his [master thesis](http://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A831811&dswid=5107) doesn't perform research on the question of building heights, and it's relation to perceived safety, but actually in his work proposes a new city design, applying concepts of Human Scale in Architecture. 

Regarding this topic of the building heights (described in the "_Scale in the Human Dimension_" chapter) he summarizes work previously presented by Jan Gehl, in his book _"[Cities for People](https://islandpress.org/book/cities-for-people)"_, where aspects of architectural geometry perspective are explained, and their relation to psychology, however, no quantitative study is cited.

And in my best effort to find one, none was found that determines this assumption based on a quantitative aspect, which is the primary motivation of this work, because such rationale of design is defended since the late sixties, however without extensive quantitative studies.

In architecture often are found quantitative studies for a specific project implementation, but is hard to see surveys that address such question in a city-wide scale, and also using remotely sensed data, such as from digital cameras.

Trying to answer reviewer two, I understand that the results are limited to the City of New York. The [Streetscore study](http://streetscore.media.mit.edu/static/files/streetscore_paper.pdf) was just performed on a limited number of urban areas (not being developed in rural zones), in the United States, and due to this, it is very likely that exists a bias towards these regions, in the aspect on how the built environment was developed in such places. Also is uncertain the effect of the demographics on such scores. The authors point to the model used in such classification described in [Salesses et al. (2013)](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0068400), in which is not disclosed any information about the demographics used in that study, nor a discussion of its effects. Another point that leads to the locality of the results is that the building distribution across the city of New York is unique, in the sense that this affects contiguities of regions, therefore determining how the spatial autocorrelation results would be calculated.

Regarding reviewer three comments, on this work the primary goal was trying to evaluate the relationship between building height and perceived violence, using a quantitative approach, considering that most of the facts that support the claim of buildings lower than six floors are based on qualitative measurements on studies done by Architects and Psychologists. Thinking that our available data was quite large, a statistical approach is recommended, and more specifically on geostatistical methods, because our data source suggests that the Geographic setup would drive structuring.

The use of linear regression modeling is a starting point, and despite the low correlation between the building height and obtained q-scores (less than five percent), when performing spatial aggregation to the community regions, the same order maintains, which suggests that despite being a weak signal, is a small factor. Considering that traditionally other demographic components are stronger on the definition of violence perception such as population, unemployment rate, per capita income, it wasn't expected that suddenly we would find the building height as a preponderant aspect. However, it was supposed that it was a weak signal, but consistent across scales, and possibly structured differentially within the geographic space.

This is the reason that we have chosen to use Local Indicators of Spatial Association(LISA), as a metric to define if exists any factor that is conditioning the distribution of q-scores across the geographic space. The method, described in depth in [Anselin(1995)](http://dces.wisc.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/30/2013/08/W4_Anselin1995.pdf), proposes a hypothesis test of a spatially distributed variable, against a random spatial distribution as the null hypothesis, in which if rejected, it is possible to claim that exists spatial structuring exercising effects on the spatial distribution of such variable.

On this work, it was used a setup that we defined a spatial weight matrix of queen setup, which implies that the considered variance is not only North-South, East-West, but also in SE-NW and SW-NE directions. This matrix was of contiguity one, and applied into a Voronoi tessellation of the centroids of the community areas, after spatial aggregation of local scores. This was necessary because the amount of small building footprint polygons was too high, making the problem intractable in a low budget experiment, and also because it is necessary to make all your polygons contiguous for this analysis to be run.

The contiguity including all polygons, and even using a weight matrix of degree one (which implies looking just for immediate neighbors) was an experimental design choice, and probably a more extensive study would require to define different contiguities, order of matrices, and very likely running across different scales of analysis (which would require a much more substantial amount of time to analyze those results).

However, it is essential to remark that even on those constraints, it was possible to figure that for that scale of analysis (community area scale), it was possible to find areas that show spatial structuring. All 23 colored regions found were tested on LISA Clustering with 95% of statistical significance, indicating that the results of such regions in that scale are not the product of spatial randomness, but by components that drive the distribution of q-scores differentially across the City of New York.

The High-high areas are areas of high scores, in a region of high scores. Same way of the Low-Low, which are regions of low scores, in low score regions. Interesting ones are the Low-High regions which indicate a region of low score surrounded by regions of high-scores, and also the High-Low regions, which is a region of high score, surrounded by low score regions, indicating contrastant neighbors.

Note that sometimes the regions come without colored neighbors (grey zones), which implies that these regions weren't able to reject the null hypothesis, however, the vicinity analysis still stands, regarding the difference defined as High-High, Low-Low, High-Low and Low-High relations. These last two paragraphs also answer the questions made by reviewer four.

These results also imply that is very unlikely that on a aggregated regression, such the initially proposed one, a linear method would be the best fit for this model, but a higher order equation, and considering a differential distribution of these scores on space.

A final comment that is possible to be made is that such experiment is just evaluating the vertical component of a building, versus perceived scores obtained by computer vision and crowdsourcing, to evaluate an Architecture/Urbanistic assumption, that has been taken for granted for years, is just supported by qualitative studies. This study is not final, and neither was the intention when designing it, but indeed an attempt to formalize an experiment to address the relationship between building height and perceived safety, specially using the new sources of data, such Streetscore, and the City of New York Data Portal digital footprints, which some years ago weren't available, and making this experiment impossible in that time. Other experiments that could be tested would be the ones treating buildings as 3D objects, probably using LiDAR data and/or CAD models, also evaluating the effects of size of the streets, and other architectural components such as gardens, parks and general green area and public spaces effects on such spatial volume distribution.
